EUCALC: Solar Water Heater Calculator

EUCALC is a calculator designed to simulate a simple solar water heating system for both residential and commercial use.

It requires an input of monthly meteorological data, solar water heating system configuration, solar collector model, and load profile to obtain monthly solar fraction.

In this current version:
1. The monthly meteorological data can be inputted manually or chosen from EUCALC's library which provides 15 different locations in Indonesia.
2. The diffuse sky radiation model used is the isotropic sky model.
3. The system configuration is a simple active-direct collector-tank-load configuration without a heat exchanger.
4. The storage tank model used is a fully-mixed storage tank model.
5. The calculation of the pipe, duct, and storage tank losses are simply an addition to the load value.
6. The collector model is only suited for glazed flat plate solar collector type.
7. The method used to calculate the monthly solar fraction is the F-chart method by Klein, Beckman, and Duffie.

On the collector model selection, you can either use the collector model provided by the EUCALC library or input it manually.

Instead of choosing an available collector model, one key feature provided by EUCALC as an advantage from other applications or pc software is its ability to let you design a solar collector model that suits your need. The testing method used in the designing step is in accordance with the ASHRAE 93-2003 standard.

EUCALC's location library (based on the NASA Prediction Of Worldwide Energy Recources):
1. Indonesia-Aceh
2. Indonesia-Ambon
3. Indonesia-Balikpapan
4. Indonesia-Bandar Lampung
5. Indonesia-Bandung
6. Indonesia-Banyuwangi
7. Indonesia-Bengkulu
8. Indonesia-Jakarta
9. Indonesia-Kupang
10. Indonesia-Mataram
11. Indonesia-Pekanbaru
12. Indonesia-Singkawang
13. Indonesia-Tarakan
14. Indonesia-Ternate
15. Indonesia-Yogyakarta

Model collector provided in the EUCALC library is an example. It is taken from ICC-SRCC™ CERTIFICATION & LISTING DIRECTORIES.

NOTE:
- You will experience delay or "screen freeze" in some part of the calculations because of the iteration process.
- No endorsement of any products or services is expressed or implied.

References:
- Solar Engineering of Solar Processes 4th edition by John A. Duffie and William A. Beckman
- A mathematical model of KOLEKTOR 2.2 reference handbook (3rd draft, 2009) by Ing. Tomas Matuska, Ph.D. and Ing. Vladimir Zmrhal, Ph.D., Czech Technical University in Prague.
- ASHRAE 93-2003 Standard: Methods of Testing to Determine the Thermal Performance of Solar Collectors.

Sources:
- Solar Rating & Certification Corporation™ (ICC-SRCC™): http://www.solar-rating.org/
- NASA Prediction Of Worldwide Energy Recources: https://power.larc.nasa.gov/
- <a href="http://www.freepik.com">Designed by Freepik</a>